There are a few concepts here that
probably match what you might be
familiar with,
object oriented programming language and
whatever language that you already know.
But an object can kind of be anything,
it can be variable a property, a class.
Everything in Python is an object.
And you can think of an object
kind of like a generic container.
So, a list object might contain
a sequence of integer objects,
along with some function objects.
And the list could have lists in it.
Everything in Python is an object.
So everything that you might be
able to do with Python objects,
you can do with any of these things
that are objects under the hood,
which isn't necessarily
the case in other languages.
Python really buys heavily into this
object oriented programming model.
But that doesn't really mean that you
need to use object oriented programming
in your own code.
Python works perfectly well as
a procedural or a scripting language,
where one command is just executed
one after the other like a recipe.
But getting familiar with object
oriented programming will really help
you level up as a programmer.
So a little bit about classes.
A really important concept for
you to be solid on is the difference
between a class and
an instance of that class.
So, for example, the number 42
is an instance of the class int,
whereas int itself is the class object.
Now, you can think of a class as
a type of something like a car,
and then you can think of
an instance like a specific thing,
such as my car the Subaru,
which is a type of car.
Both classes and
instances can have variables and
methods on them which is
a little bit confusing.
Changing a variable on the class
is going to change what
you get returned when you call
that variable from an instance.
However, when you change
things on an instance,
it does not affect the class itself.
And we're gonna come back to
that concept in a second.
But I want to cover the self keyword,
and you might have seen that
peppered in to the examples of
python code that you've seen so far.
Self is used inside of classes to refer
to abound instance of that variable or
object.
So if we have a class car, and
we made a specific instance
of that class called my car.
When we call the start
method here to see if
that car runs,
we pass in the self keyword.
So let's start a new
file named chapter_6.py.
And you can just go ahead and copy all
of this code and paste it in there.
Let's go ahead and run this.
We should see some output here
it says my_car runs is true.
And then my_car.start prints.
My car is started.
What happens if we set
my_car.runs to false?
And run this again.
We'll see that my car is broken.
It's very sad.
If we make a new instance of this and
say, my other car as a car,
and if I print out my other car,
my other car,
And around this We'll see that
Oops, sorry, did not want to print that
out since this already does some printing.
So let's run that again and
we'll see better results.
We'll see that this car is broken.
But my other car runs just fine.
So when you change properties on an
instance, it only affects that instance.
And in your Python code,
self refers to an instance.
So, that means that self,
when we created that
instance variable on my car,
when we called start on it,
that self keyword told
the interpreter to look for
an instance variable
in my car called runs.
And when we called my other car.start,
it was attached to that other instance.
All instance variables in these classes
are going to take self as their first
argument.
If we try to call start on the car class,
instead of on an instance.
Let's see what happens.
I'm going to get an error here.
And it's gonna say that start is
missing one required positional
argument called self.
As you write Python code, I promise
that you will see this error over and
over, so
might as well get familiar with it.
That's because I'm trying to call this
method, which is a instance method.
It's expecting an instance
on the class itself.
And that does not work.
Let's take a look at
the opposite scenario.
If I have an instance here called my
other car, and I call my car.start.
This should work just fine.
If I remove this self keyword here,
and comment this out.
And I'm going to put
a stab here called pass,
which makes this valid Python
code without anything in it.
When I run this,
I'm gonna see that start takes 0
positional arguments but 1 was given.
So it's also an error that you'll
see quite a bit in Python.
So make sure that you recognize it.
This means that you are trying
to call a method on an instance.
Which passes self to this method,
this class method
under the hood, but
you forgot to include self here.
So calling start on this instance
is passing in self under the hood,
if you forget to provide it in the list of
arguments, you're going to see this error.
So now that I've added self back in,
this should run just fine.